CHAPTER 3

DESIGN AND METHODOLOGY

This chapter reviews the detailed design and methodology employed in developing CBDA. The
chapter outlines the development model followed throughout the project lifecycle and provides an
analysis of requirements based on the current manual processes in the locale. Specifically, it outlines the
functional requirements that guide the system design and presents diagrams illustrating the system
architecture, data flow, and user interactions of the system. The chapter also includes user interface design
as well as a testing and evaluation plan to validate the system’s functionality and effectiveness in
addressing user requirements.
3.1 Development Model
This section explains the chosen software development life cycle for the project, which is Agile
Scrum Methodology.
Agile Scrum Development Model

Figure x Agile Scrum Software Development Model

Agile Scrum is an iterative and incremental framework that optimizes predictability, managing
risk, and continuous refinement. Agile Scrum engages with groups of skilled people who can successfully
finish tasks, as well as share or acquire skills when needed. The development process for Agile Scrum is


PAMANTASAN NG LUNGSOD NG VALENZUELA
College of Engineering and Information Technology
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEPARTMENT

divided into time-boxed iterations called sprints, which typically lasts 1 to 4 weeks; Each Sprint has a
fixed length and is the period where team ideas get turned into value. After every end of each Sprint
determines the work done from the Product Backlog to achieve the projected Product Goal set by the
Product Owner.
But for a Sprint to work in Agile Scrum, it must embody the three pillars of transparency,
inspection, and adaptation. Transparency states that the process of work must be visible to those
performing the work, as well as those receiving the work. With transparency established, only then the
process of inspecting the work could be successfully initiated. Inspection states that progress must be
examined frequently to timely detect potential risks or problems in the project. Inspecting the work with
transparency leads to adaptation for each requirement in the project. Adaptation modifies the product
specifications to the requirements of the stakeholder, ensuring that any aspect of the process that deviate
outside desired stakeholder limits will be corrected and fixed; The Product Owner is responsible for
defining the product backlog as representation of stakeholders, while the Scrum Master facilitates the
process of Agile Scrum for the Development Team, making sure every member embodies the three pillars
of transparency, inspection, and adaptation. (Schwaber and Sutherland, 2020)
In line with the system, the development of CBDA begin with the Product Vision, wherein the
Product Owner collect various information about the client, which is the CEIT Library; The Product
Owner collaborates and lists all the challenges faced by the stakeholders, determining if a suitable system
can be used as a solution intervention. The Product Owner then defines the Product Backlog, listing all
the features of the system that will serve value to the stakeholders and starting the Spring Planning.
The Sprint Planning begins as the Development Team meets and defines their roles, selecting
major tasks from the Product Backlog to be completed in the upcoming Sprint. The Development Team
breaks down the major tasks of CBDA into smaller units called User Stories. The selected User Stories
will then be contained in the Sprint Backlog used in Sprints to iteratively and incrementally create CBDA.


PAMANTASAN NG LUNGSOD NG VALENZUELA
College of Engineering and Information Technology
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEPARTMENT

The Scrum Master conducts daily stand-up meetings to facilitate communication and discuss
progress, challenges, and upcoming tasks between each member during the Sprint. Aside from meetings,
the team also regularly conducts testing to maintain the same level of quality as desired by the
stakeholders. The team engages in Sprint Review after the end of each Sprint to present a small working
product to the stakeholders, aiming to be evaluated for progress and feedback on the system. Following
the Sprint Review leads the Sprint Retrospective for reflection and opinions on the completed Sprint.
(Geeks for Geeks, 2023). This process repeats until the final testing and the deployment of the system in
the CEIT Library.