3.5.2 Proposed System Level 1 Diagram

Figure 17. Data Flow Diagram Level 1 of Administrator

The Administrator can login to the system, as well as create, manage, and delete user accounts for
Chairperson, Researchers, Library Staff, and other Administrators. Furthermore, they can create, manage,


and delete research manuscripts and manuscript files, as well as approve manuscript submissions by
chairpersons in the system’s database. They are also able to view system logs and analytics, approve or
reject access requests to manuscripts, receive notifications, and access the about module for system
information. To view and examine the system from a researcher’s perspective, they can perform
functionalities a researcher is able to accomplish without asking for permission from another
administrator.



Figure 18. Data Flow Diagram Level 1 of Chairperson

The Chairperson can login to the system, as well as create, publish, unpublish, edit, and delete
research manuscripts and manuscript files for their department in the system’s database. They are able to
receive notifications and access the about module for system information. To view and examine the
system from a researcher’s perspective, Chairpersons can perform functionalities a researcher is able to
accomplish, albeit still requiring permission from library staff or administrators when requesting
manuscripts from other departments.



Figure 19. Data Flow Diagram Level 1 of Library Staff

The Library Staff can login to the system, view activities of researcher accounts, send warning
messages to researcher accounts, as well as enable and disable their accounts. Moreover, they are also in
charge of accepting or rejecting access to research manuscripts in the system. They are also able to
receive notifications and access the about module for system information.



Figure 20. Data Flow Diagram Level 1 of Researcher



The researcher can login to the system, as well as search and browse research articles in the
system. They are also able to create and manage bookmarks and references from these articles, and export
references in APA, MLA, or Chicago format. Furthermore, they can request for access to the full version
of manuscripts and be able to view them once approved by Administrators or Library Staff. Researchers
are also able to create and manage teams, as well as send, accept, and request team invitations. They also
have access to creating and managing personal chatbot discourse conversations. Lastly, they are able to
receive notifications about their requests in the requests, as well as team activities and warnings from
library staff or administrators. They can also view information about the system through the about
module.